From: Kjell Eikland <keikland@broadpark.no>
To: saunders@stanford.edu
Subject: Row-based L0 in LUSOL
Date-Sent: Sunday, April 24, 2005 02:15:28 PM

Dear Michael, 

Long time no speak.  I hope you are well - even in these
times of finals.  We are planning another trip to the US /
East Coast again this summer (early July), and my wife just
asked if I wanted to stop by GAMS and see you... which would
have been nice, but a repeat of the utter coincidence last
year I guess would be too much to expect.

I have noticed that you have been "online" with lp_solve
occasionally, something I have appreciated a lot.  I hope
you have seen the frequency with which Peter and I are
telling people to use bfp_LUSOL whenever they have problems
-- and then the users' problems seem to disappear.

There will be a new version of lp_solve coming out any day
now, and it has taken quite a bit of effort.  LUSOL has just
been sitting there, with only very cosmetic changes and it
has been the incarnation of robustness.  However, as you may
remember, I toyed with the idea of creating a row-based L0
in order to speed up the "btran" solution with sparse
vectors and this has now come up again as something I would
like to see part of the next version.  I really hit the wall
trying to penetrate the coding logic last year, and I just
did not have the mental space and time to crack it.
However, this week-end I spent a few hours on it and I seem
to have solved it, at least partially.  This is where I hope
you can offer some advice.

Basically, the code works beautifully with extremely high
accuracy for a wide range of test matrices, but some do
return with poor accuracy and I have not found the location
of the problem.  In all cases poor accuracy is returned
following a column update, which I surmise could be due to
permutations to maintain sparsity, but I am not sure.

Does this ring a bell for you?  I have enclosed the code
hoping that you might be able to suggest where there could
be problems.  I send the whole pack to you so you have it,
but the key new code is in the new file "lusol6l0.c", which
contains two routines used in lusol1a following
factorization to create a row-based L0, and lusol6a for
solving the L0-part of btran.

Regards 
Kjell
